one such place is the sea of a couch in
far eastern Russia this is the island of
Tallinn throughout the long Arctic
winter it's encircled by ice but as
spring approaches that begins to break
up and seabirds that have spent the
winter feeding out on the open ocean far
to the south begin to return
it's isolated position and steep cliffs
make Tallinn a perfect nesting site the
tufted puffins arrive first these are
the Pacific cousins of our less
spectacular Atlantic species horned
puffins soon follow in all 14 different
species returned to Tallinn each spring
and in just a few weeks the once silent
cliffs come alive to the calls of 4
million breeding seabirds
this is a multi-storey avian city
[Applause]
[Music]
assembling in these bench colonies after
having spent a largely solitary life at
sea provides the birds with the social
stimulation that is the key to
coordinating their breeding by listing
and laying together they ensure that
most of their chicks will leave the nest
of exactly at the same time just like
the turtles this is the way they spread
the impact of predators the world's
largest Eagle stellar sea eagle a third
as big again as a golden
[Music]
throughout the summer
the Eagles hunt in talons crowded
colonies
[Music]
riding on the updrafts they patrol the
top of the cliffs looking out for any
Kittiwake that ventures too far from the
rock face
[Music]
suddenly the huge evil Stoops with the
aerial agility of a falcon
coordinating panic among the kittiwakes
confuses their attacker
but eagle doesn't give up
[Music]
and it is got one